# Chicago Crimes
### Background
(Hypothetical)
The City of Chicago's Police Department has been struggling with community support in recent years. Between high-profile officer-involved shootings nationwide and a perception that Chicago police are doing too little to curb the increase in gun violence in many neighborhoods, distrust of police may be worse than it's ever been. \[this part is probably real]
\[the rest is not real] The city has been looking into new ways to change the communities' perceptions of their police department. Through focus groups with community leaders, the City of Chicago learned that many civilians distrust the police because they are seen as "forces of destruction," even when they are sent in to help. Arrests can have a damaging impact on the offenders' families, and little is done to help the victims of the crimes when police are sent out. In order to combat negative perceptions of its police force, the City of Chicago has trained some of its police officers to act as "Community Support Officers": they act as police officers *and* social workers. Instead of focusing solely on the offenders, these officers are trained to assess the needs of the victims and the offenders' families and address them in whatever way they can. They are trained to offer brief emotional interventions and are aware of all the resources available from the City to help victims and families.
Because the Community Support Officer program is still in its infancy, the City of Chicago wants to focus on areas where they can make the most difference. In cases of domestic violence, the victim is typically *also* the offender's family. These situations are where the services of a Community Support Officer can be best utilized. Especially in cases where the perpetrator is the primary provider for the family, an arrest can wreak havoc on a family who was already just victimized. It's important that the victims feel supported, and there are many resources available to victims of domestic violence. For this reason, Chicago Police wants to send out a team with a Community Support Officer when there is a domestic crime where an arrest is likely to occur. 
The Chicago Police Department has designed a system that triggers a dialog box if a 911 operator identifies a reported crime as domestic-related through their electronic system. The dialog box prompts the operator to enter some information about the crime. This information then gets routed to the Department of Community Support, where a staff member determines whether or not this crime warrants the department sending out a Community Support Officer.
### Problem Statement
Unfortunately, in 2017 there were an average of over 100 domestic-related crimes per day in Chicago, and it is not feasible for the Department of Community Support to review all reports. They'd lke to automate some of the decision-making in order to reduce the number of 911-reported crimes that the Department of Community Support staff must review. 
The Chicago Police Department's electronic system allows for them to include check-boxes and drop-down menus in the dialog box that is created when a 911 operator identifies a call as domestic-related. For timeliness and ease of use, the UX designers have put the following limitations on this dialog box:

-There may be no more than 8 check-boxes or drop-down menus.
-A drop-down menu may contain no more than 5 options to choose from.

The City of Chicago would like for me to build a model that can predict whether a particular 911 call labeled domestic-related will result in an arrest, because these are the types of situations where a Community Support Officer can best be utilized. They will use this model to design the check-boxes and drop-downs in the 911 operator domestic-related crime dialog box. I will be using the City of Chicago Crime Data to train this model. Due to the use case for this model, it will be important to only select features that *could be included* as a check-box or drop-down menu and only features that the 911-operator is likely to know. For instance, if the domestic incident involves a theft, it's unlikely that the 911 operator will be able to ascertain the value of this theft.
